CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to AIConfig { }

👋 Welcome and thank you for your interest in contributing to AIConfig! 

---
### **Ways to Contribute**

1. **{ Code Contributions }**: 

2. **{ Cookbooks }**: Showcase innovative ways and use cases to use AIConfig in your code through a cookbook.

3.  **{ Bugs }**: File a bug report when you encounter issue and/or submit a fix for the bug.

4. **{ Feature Requests }**: Submit feature or enhancements requests to help guide our roadmap.

5. **{ Documentation }**: Contribute documentation to make it easier for others using through the library.

---
### **1. Code Contributions**

```
aiconfig/
├─ cookbook/
├─ cli/
├─ editor/
├─ aiconfig-docs/
├─ python/
│   ├── model-parsers/
├─ typescript/
│   ├── model-parsers/
├─ extensions/
```

> *To Do: Add information on library structure and contribution opportunities*

---
### **2. Cookbooks**

Create a small app to add to our cookbook to showcase your use case or innovative idea. 

> **Important** - Each app in the cookbook must have a *README*. We want to ensure that developers can easily use the cookbook

Cookbook apps can be in typescript or python. And, you can decide on whether to showcase it through as a *console app*, *ipython notebook*, etc.

#### **Examples:**
- [Basic Prompt Routing](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Basic-Prompt-Routing)
- [Chain of Verification](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Chain-of-Verification)
- [Wizard GPT](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Wizard-GPT)
  
---
### **3. Bugs**

#### **Bug Fixing**
We track bugs in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `bug` label. 

* If you're a first-time contributor, a good option is to find an issue tagged [`good first issue`](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels/good%20first%20issue)
* If you're looking to fix a few bugs (we greatly appreciate it), the issues are tagged with [`bug`](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels/bug)

#### **Bug Reports**
File a bug report in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `bug` label. We try to triage the feature requests daily. Please include as much detail as possible in the request.

---
### **4. Feature Requests**

We track feature requests in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `enhancement` label. We try to triage the feature requests daily. Please include as much detail as possible in the request.

---
### **5. Documentation**


---
## Development Guide

Commit message:

Add model parsers to contributing.md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to AIConfig { }

👋 Welcome and thank you for your interest in contributing to AIConfig! 

---
### **Ways to Contribute**

1. **{ Code Contributions }**: We always welcome code contributions to the library. In particular, *model-parsers*, *extensions*, and *cookbooks* are areas that can always use contributions.

2. **{ Cookbooks }**: Showcase innovative ways and use cases to use AIConfig in your code through a cookbook.

3.  **{ Bugs }**: File a bug report when you encounter issue and/or submit a fix for the bug.

4. **{ Feature Requests }**: Submit feature or enhancements requests to help guide our roadmap.

5. **{ Documentation }**: Contribute documentation to make it easier for others using through the library.

---
### **1. Code Contributions**

```
aiconfig/
├─ cookbook/
├─ cli/
├─ editor/
├─ aiconfig-docs/
├─ python/
├─ typescript/
├─ extensions/
```

1. **{ Model Parsers }**: Model Parsers manage the conection to foundation models. By default, we provide the OpenAI models and Google PaLM models. The model parsers are defined in both `python` and `typescript`. 
   
    Instructions for contributing a Model Parser:
    1. Add a folder under `aiconfig/extensions`
    2. Define the requirements. For `python`, you'll need to set up `pyproject.toml`. For `typescript`, you'll need a `package.json`.
   > **Naming convention for the extension**: *aiconfig-extension-NAME_OF_MODEL_PARSER*.
    3. Extend from `ModelParser` class, and implement `serialize`, `deserialize` and `run` functions.
    4. We highly recommend adding a cookbook under `aiconfig/cookbooks` for a guide on using your model parser.
    5. Submit a PR for the lastmile team to review the extension and cookbook
    6. Finally, publish your extension package on `pypi` and/or `npm`

2. **{ Extensions }**: Other than Model Parsers, there are opportunities to publish extensions that can connect `aiconfig` with other useful Generative AI libraries.

---
### **2. Cookbooks**

Create a small app to add to our cookbook to showcase your use case or innovative idea. 

> **Important** - Each app in the cookbook must have a *README*. We want to ensure that developers can easily use the cookbook

Cookbook apps can be in typescript or python. And, you can decide on whether to showcase it through as a *console app*, *ipython notebook*, etc.

#### **Examples:**
- [Basic Prompt Routing](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Basic-Prompt-Routing)
- [Chain of Verification](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Chain-of-Verification)
- [Wizard GPT](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/cookbook/Wizard-GPT)
  
---
### **3. Bugs**

#### **Bug Fixing**
We track bugs in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `bug` label. 

* If you're a first-time contributor, a good option is to find an issue tagged [`good first issue`](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels/good%20first%20issue)
* If you're looking to fix a few bugs (we greatly appreciate it), the issues are tagged with [`bug`](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels/bug)

#### **Bug Reports**
File a bug report in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `bug` label. We try to triage the feature requests daily. Please include as much detail as possible in the request.

---
### **4. Feature Requests**

We track feature requests in [Github issues](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/labels) with the `enhancement` label. We try to triage the feature requests daily. Please include as much detail as possible in the request.

---
### **5. Documentation**

We have our documentation source controlled in the [`aiconfig/aiconfig-docs`](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig/tree/main/aiconfig-docs) directory. The docs are published to our [LastMile AI website](https://aiconfig.lastmileai.dev/docs/introduction/basics). Feel free to contribute documentation fixes and improvements and the lastmile team will review.

---
## Development Guide
